
DOODLE BATTLE !

Doodle Battle is a challenging reflex game with minimalist aesthetics and a quirky sense of humor. Users can play in one of two modes: head-to-head (for two players), or endurance (for a single player).


MINIMAL VIABLE PRODUCT (MVP) 
USER STORY: 

1.) User sees starting screen and has options to read how to play (press "how to play" button), or to start a single player (1-PL) or two-player (2-PL) game by pressing the corresponding buttons. 


2.) "How to Play" button -- brings up text on the starting screen display that walks the user through how to play single or two-player game. 


3.) What happens next will be different based on whether a single or two-player game is selected... 


___ SINGLE PLAYER ___

1.) Choosing 1-PL game brings up a doodle selection screen where the user picks their doodle champion from those available; the game then begins and the user is taken to the 1-PL arena screen  

2.) User sees their chosen doodle on the left, along with their health, current round, "high score." The opponent doodle is on the right. The player's attack bar is prominently displayed in the middle of the screen just below the "arena" where the doodles are displayed. 

3.) the User fights against the enemy doodle according to the battle system (see below) 

4.) If the user is victorious, they are brought back up to full health, and pitted against another enemy. 

5.) The enemies increase in difficulty as the game goes on

6.) If user loses the fight, they get option to a.) try again immediately, b.) to go back to the doodle selection screen, or c.) to quit (i.e., go back to the starting screen) 

7.) Single player "high score" (i.e., how many rounds they got to) is stored and displayed on the starting screen (and 1-PL battle screen) for all games played since page was last (re)loaded 



___ TWO PLAYERS ___ 

1.) Choosing 2-PL game brings up a doodle selection screen for one of the two players (chosen randomly); once that player makes a selection, the other player selects their doodle 

2.) PL1 sees their doodle, stats, and attack bar on the left of the screen; PL2 sees their doodle, stats, and attack bar on the right side of the screen. 

3.) The players' doodles fight each other according to the battle system (see below)

4.) Whoever's doodle runs out of health first, loses (draws are possible if both doodles run out of health first)

5.) A victory message declares winner (or tie)

6.) Users are given option to fight again immediately (rematch), change their doodles (and then fight immediately), or go back to starting screen 

7.) Each player's wins are tallied and displayed for all head-to-head games played since the page was last (re)loaded 


___ BATTLE SYSTEM ___

Battle doodle uses a reflex-based battle system for all users. (CPU-controlled enemies attack based on randomly generated numbers, with the frequency/strength of the enemy's attacks scaling up with enemy difficulty level.) 

The user's doodle attacks based on user input and the attack bar, which consists of a dot moving rapidly, back and forth, along a slender rectangle. A small middle region of the rectangle is offset and marked differently; this area is the "hit box."" The user wants to input an attack when the dot is in the hit box. Doing so will score a hit against the opponent. 

One key is designated the attack input for first player, another for second player. (In single player mode, either attack button will count as an attack input.)

If the user inputs an attack while the dot is outside of the hit box, they miss. 

Regardless, inputting an attack causes a slight delay (during which the dot is removed from the bar) before the dot is reset. During this delay, attack inputs from the user are ignored. When the delay is over, the user can input an attack again. 

If the user's last attack was a miss, the delay between attacks is longer. 

The exact length of the attack delay is randomized within certain parameters each time that user misses; similarly, the speed at which the dot moves along the bar is randomized every time the dot is reset on the bar. This prevents a user from simply mastering one specific "rhythm"; these random modifiers make the game more challenging and replayable. 

In head-to-head mode, each attack bar operates independently of the other. 

Both doodles' health is checked after each attack. If one doodle is at or below zero, it is knocked out; if the other doodle is above zero health, it wins. (If both doodles are at zero or lower health when this check occurs, the game is a tie.) 


____________________________

NOT-MINIMAL PRODUCT:
STRETCH GOALS

Time permitting, I'd like to add these things in -- roughly in this order of priority: 


1.) After the basic display and layout elements and game logic have been written, I will add simple animations for the doodles. [I feel confident I will at least get this step done]

2.) Make the combat system more dynamic by having different inputs. To start with, kicks, punches, blocks. When an attack is incoming, there will be a very brief window during which the other player can input a block input to reduce damage received. Kicks cannot be blocked, but are riskier -- they have a significantly longer attack delay if you miss with them! 

3.) Make the single player mode more interesting -- make special doodles for it, "bosses", etc. 

4.) Add more advanced animation -- different animation for different attacks, differentiate the doodles more, etc. etc. 

5.) Add special abilities to each doodle, so that their difference is not simply aesthetic  

6.) Add music 

7.) Design and playtest more doodles for users to choose from 


